README.md, before:

# OpenSourceRoutingMachine.jl

A thin Julia wrapper for OSRM (Open Source Routing Machine), a high-performance tool for route planning in road networks.

## Modules

The package structure consists of a core module and service submodules.

The core module `OpenSourceRoutingMachine` provides the constructor `OSRM` for creating an OSRM instance and setter and getter functions for basic configuration.

The rest of the functionality is organized in service submodules with the following scope:

- **Graph**: Builds OSRM graphs from OpenStreetMap data
- **Nearest**: Find the nearest waypoint in a road network for a given position
- **Route**: Find a route between waypoints containing detailed information
- **Table**: Find distance/duration matrices between multiple source and destination waypoints
- **Match**: Find a route by map matching noisy GPS traces to a road network
- **Trip**: Find a route by solving the traveling salesman problem
- **Tile**: Retrieve road network geometry as vector tiles

All modules expose the full configuration and parameter handling API of OSRM through setter and getter functions, providing fine-grained control over query behavior.
The output format is restricted to FlatBuffers for all modules except the Tile module.
The Tile module returns road network geometry in MVT format.

## Installation

```julia
using Pkg
Pkg.add("OpenSourceRoutingMachine", url="https://github.com/moviro-hub/OpenSourceRoutingMachine.jl")
```

## Usage examples

### Graph building

The Graph module provides the functionality to build OSRM graphs from OpenStreetMap data.
It wraps the OSRM graph CLI commands.

OSRM can handle different OSM data formats, including OSM XML and PBF (Protocol Buffer Format).

OSRM supports two graph types: MLD (Multi-Level Dijkstra) and CH (Contraction Hierarchies).
MLD is the recommended graph type for most use cases.

Each graph is tailored for a specific routing profile that defines how different road types and conditions are weighted.
OSRM provides three built-in profiles: car, bicycle, and foot, which can be specified using the `Profile` enum type.
Custom profiles can be used by providing the path to the profile.lua file(s).

The basic workflow for creating an MLD graph for car is as follows:

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine.Graphs

# input data
osm_path = "hamburg-latest.osm.pbf"
# output data
osrm_base_path = "hamburg-latest.osrm"   # base path for all graph files

# Build MLD graph (recommended for most use cases)
extract(osm_path; profile = PROFILE_CAR)
partition(osrm_base_path)
customize(osrm_base_path)
```

The created graph files are automatically read when the OSRM instance is initialized.

### OSRM instance

Once the graph is built, you can create an OSRM instance to use the graph.

The OSRM instance is created with the base path of the graph data files.
It also contains configuration settings for the OSRM instance.

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine
# create the OSRM instance
osrm_base_path = "hamburg-latest.osrm"
osrm = OSRM(osrm_base_path)
# set the default snapping radius to 100 meters
set_default_radius!(osrm, 100.0)
get_default_radius(osrm)
# see the documentation for more parameters
```

This instance can then be used with the service submodules for querying.

### Nearest query

The Nearest module provides the functionality to find the nearest waypoint in a road network for a given position.

The main function is `nearest(osrm, params)`, which takes the OSRM instance and a nearest-specific parameters object as input.

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine.Nearests

params = NearestParams()
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9937, 53.5511))
set_number_of_results!(params, 5)  # Get 5 nearest points
# see the documentation for more parameters

response = nearest(osrm, params; deserialize = true)
```

This results in a `FBResult` object containing the entire response as native Julia objects.

With `deserialize = false`, the response is a `Vector{UInt8}` containing the FlatBuffers binary data.

```julia
response = nearest(osrm, params; deserialize = false)
```

This deserialization option applies to modules that return FlatBuffers: `nearest`, `route`, `match`, `table`, and `trip`.

### Route query

The Route module provides the functionality to calculate the shortest path between two or more waypoints.

The main function is `route(osrm, params)`, which takes the OSRM instance and a route-specific parameters object as input.

For more details on the response options, see the Nearest example above.

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine.Routes

# Create route parameters
params = RouteParams()
set_geometries!(params, GEOMETRIES_GEOJSON) # geometry in uncompressed format
set_overview!(params, OVERVIEW_FULL) # detailed geometry information
set_steps!(params, true) # include steps in the response
set_annotations!(params, ANNOTATIONS_ALL) # include all annotations
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9937, 53.5511))  # Start: Hamburg city center
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9882, 53.6304))  # End: Hamburg airport
# see the documentation for more parameters

# Calculate route
response = route(osrm, params)
```

### Table query

The Table module provides the functionality to calculate the distance/duration matrices between multiple waypoints.

The main function is `table(osrm, params)`, which takes the OSRM instance and a table-specific parameters object as input.

For more details on the response options, see the Nearest example above.

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine.Tables

params = TableParams()
# Add coordinates first
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9937, 53.5511))  # Index 0
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9882, 53.6304))  # Index 1
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9667, 53.5417))  # Index 2
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9352, 53.5528))  # Index 3
# Mark which coordinates are origins and destinations
add_source!(params, 0)
add_source!(params, 1)
add_destination!(params, 2)
add_destination!(params, 3)
# see the documentation for more parameters

response = table(osrm, params)
```

### Match query

The Match module provides the functionality to map noisy GPS traces to a road network.

The main function is `match(osrm, params)`, which takes the OSRM instance and a match-specific parameters object as input.

For more details on the response options, see the Nearest example above.

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine.Matches

params = MatchParams()
set_geometries!(params, GEOMETRIES_GEOJSON) # geometry in uncompressed format
set_overview!(params, OVERVIEW_FULL) # detailed geometry information
set_alternatives!(params, false)  # no alternatives
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9937, 53.5511))
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9940, 53.5512))
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9945, 53.5513))
# see the documentation for more parameters

response = match(osrm, params)
```

### Trip query

The Trip module provides the functionality to solve the traveling salesman problem, finding the optimal order to visit multiple waypoints.

The main function is `trip(osrm, params)`, which takes the OSRM instance and a trip-specific parameters object as input.

For more details on the response options, see the Nearest example above.

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine.Trips

params = TripParams()
set_geometries!(params, GEOMETRIES_GEOJSON) # geometry in uncompressed format
set_overview!(params, OVERVIEW_FULL) # detailed geometry information
set_alternatives!(params, false)  # no alternatives
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9937, 53.5511))
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9940, 53.5512))
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9945, 53.5513))
# see the documentation for more parameters

response = trip(osrm, params)
```

### Tile query

The Tile module provides the functionality to retrieve road network geometry as vector tiles in MVT format.

The main function is `tile(osrm, params)`, which takes the OSRM instance and a tile-specific parameters object as input.

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine.Tiles

params = TileParams()
set_x!(params, 4500)  # Tile X coordinate
set_y!(params, 2700)  # Tile Y coordinate
set_z!(params, 13)    # Zoom level
# see the documentation for more parameters

response = tile(osrm, params)
```

Copyright (c) 2025 MOVIRO GmbH

Licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Update README with testing note and Windows TODO
Added a note about testing readiness and a TODO for Windows.

README.md, after:

# OpenSourceRoutingMachine.jl

A thin Julia wrapper for OSRM (Open Source Routing Machine), a high-performance tool for route planning in road networks.

**Note:** The package is ready for testing, a release is targeted for early 2026. 
The only obvious TODO is fixing the graph module data generation on Windows. For this, we need help from someone with Windows command line knowledge.

## Modules

The package structure consists of a core module and service submodules.

The core module `OpenSourceRoutingMachine` provides the constructor `OSRM` for creating an OSRM instance and setter and getter functions for basic configuration.

The rest of the functionality is organized in service submodules with the following scope:

- **Graph**: Builds OSRM graphs from OpenStreetMap data
- **Nearest**: Find the nearest waypoint in a road network for a given position
- **Route**: Find a route between waypoints containing detailed information
- **Table**: Find distance/duration matrices between multiple source and destination waypoints
- **Match**: Find a route by map matching noisy GPS traces to a road network
- **Trip**: Find a route by solving the traveling salesman problem
- **Tile**: Retrieve road network geometry as vector tiles

All modules expose the full configuration and parameter handling API of OSRM through setter and getter functions, providing fine-grained control over query behavior.
The output format is restricted to FlatBuffers for all modules except the Tile module.
The Tile module returns road network geometry in MVT format.

## Installation

```julia
using Pkg
Pkg.add("OpenSourceRoutingMachine", url="https://github.com/moviro-hub/OpenSourceRoutingMachine.jl")
```

## Usage examples

### Graph building

The Graph module provides the functionality to build OSRM graphs from OpenStreetMap data.
It wraps the OSRM graph CLI commands.

OSRM can handle different OSM data formats, including OSM XML and PBF (Protocol Buffer Format).

OSRM supports two graph types: MLD (Multi-Level Dijkstra) and CH (Contraction Hierarchies).
MLD is the recommended graph type for most use cases.

Each graph is tailored for a specific routing profile that defines how different road types and conditions are weighted.
OSRM provides three built-in profiles: car, bicycle, and foot, which can be specified using the `Profile` enum type.
Custom profiles can be used by providing the path to the profile.lua file(s).

The basic workflow for creating an MLD graph for car is as follows:

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine.Graphs

# input data
osm_path = "hamburg-latest.osm.pbf"
# output data
osrm_base_path = "hamburg-latest.osrm"   # base path for all graph files

# Build MLD graph (recommended for most use cases)
extract(osm_path; profile = PROFILE_CAR)
partition(osrm_base_path)
customize(osrm_base_path)
```

The created graph files are automatically read when the OSRM instance is initialized.

### OSRM instance

Once the graph is built, you can create an OSRM instance to use the graph.

The OSRM instance is created with the base path of the graph data files.
It also contains configuration settings for the OSRM instance.

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine
# create the OSRM instance
osrm_base_path = "hamburg-latest.osrm"
osrm = OSRM(osrm_base_path)
# set the default snapping radius to 100 meters
set_default_radius!(osrm, 100.0)
get_default_radius(osrm)
# see the documentation for more parameters
```

This instance can then be used with the service submodules for querying.

### Nearest query

The Nearest module provides the functionality to find the nearest waypoint in a road network for a given position.

The main function is `nearest(osrm, params)`, which takes the OSRM instance and a nearest-specific parameters object as input.

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine.Nearests

params = NearestParams()
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9937, 53.5511))
set_number_of_results!(params, 5)  # Get 5 nearest points
# see the documentation for more parameters

response = nearest(osrm, params; deserialize = true)
```

This results in a `FBResult` object containing the entire response as native Julia objects.

With `deserialize = false`, the response is a `Vector{UInt8}` containing the FlatBuffers binary data.

```julia
response = nearest(osrm, params; deserialize = false)
```

This deserialization option applies to modules that return FlatBuffers: `nearest`, `route`, `match`, `table`, and `trip`.

### Route query

The Route module provides the functionality to calculate the shortest path between two or more waypoints.

The main function is `route(osrm, params)`, which takes the OSRM instance and a route-specific parameters object as input.

For more details on the response options, see the Nearest example above.

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine.Routes

# Create route parameters
params = RouteParams()
set_geometries!(params, GEOMETRIES_GEOJSON) # geometry in uncompressed format
set_overview!(params, OVERVIEW_FULL) # detailed geometry information
set_steps!(params, true) # include steps in the response
set_annotations!(params, ANNOTATIONS_ALL) # include all annotations
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9937, 53.5511))  # Start: Hamburg city center
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9882, 53.6304))  # End: Hamburg airport
# see the documentation for more parameters

# Calculate route
response = route(osrm, params)
```

### Table query

The Table module provides the functionality to calculate the distance/duration matrices between multiple waypoints.

The main function is `table(osrm, params)`, which takes the OSRM instance and a table-specific parameters object as input.

For more details on the response options, see the Nearest example above.

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine.Tables

params = TableParams()
# Add coordinates first
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9937, 53.5511))  # Index 0
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9882, 53.6304))  # Index 1
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9667, 53.5417))  # Index 2
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9352, 53.5528))  # Index 3
# Mark which coordinates are origins and destinations
add_source!(params, 0)
add_source!(params, 1)
add_destination!(params, 2)
add_destination!(params, 3)
# see the documentation for more parameters

response = table(osrm, params)
```

### Match query

The Match module provides the functionality to map noisy GPS traces to a road network.

The main function is `match(osrm, params)`, which takes the OSRM instance and a match-specific parameters object as input.

For more details on the response options, see the Nearest example above.

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine.Matches

params = MatchParams()
set_geometries!(params, GEOMETRIES_GEOJSON) # geometry in uncompressed format
set_overview!(params, OVERVIEW_FULL) # detailed geometry information
set_alternatives!(params, false)  # no alternatives
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9937, 53.5511))
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9940, 53.5512))
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9945, 53.5513))
# see the documentation for more parameters

response = match(osrm, params)
```

### Trip query

The Trip module provides the functionality to solve the traveling salesman problem, finding the optimal order to visit multiple waypoints.

The main function is `trip(osrm, params)`, which takes the OSRM instance and a trip-specific parameters object as input.

For more details on the response options, see the Nearest example above.

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine.Trips

params = TripParams()
set_geometries!(params, GEOMETRIES_GEOJSON) # geometry in uncompressed format
set_overview!(params, OVERVIEW_FULL) # detailed geometry information
set_alternatives!(params, false)  # no alternatives
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9937, 53.5511))
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9940, 53.5512))
add_coordinate!(params, Position(9.9945, 53.5513))
# see the documentation for more parameters

response = trip(osrm, params)
```

### Tile query

The Tile module provides the functionality to retrieve road network geometry as vector tiles in MVT format.

The main function is `tile(osrm, params)`, which takes the OSRM instance and a tile-specific parameters object as input.

```julia
using OpenSourceRoutingMachine.Tiles

params = TileParams()
set_x!(params, 4500)  # Tile X coordinate
set_y!(params, 2700)  # Tile Y coordinate
set_z!(params, 13)    # Zoom level
# see the documentation for more parameters

response = tile(osrm, params)
```

Copyright (c) 2025 MOVIRO GmbH

Licensed under the MIT License.
